Justify-content aligns items across the main axis.

Because justify-content and align-items are based on the main and cross axis of your container, their behavior changes when you change the flex-direction of a flex-container. For example, when you change flex-direction to column, justify-content aligns vertically and align-items aligns horizontally. The most common behavior, however, is the default, i.e. justify-content aligns items horizontally (because the main axis defaults to horizontal), and align-items aligns them vertically. One of the biggest sticking points that beginners have with flexbox is confusion when this behavior changes.

One very useful feature of flex is the gap property. Setting gap on a flex container adds a specified space between flex items, similar to adding a margin to the items themselves. gap is a new property so it doesn’t show up in many resources yet, but it works reliably in all modern browsers, so it is safe to use and very handy!

tldr final note:

display: flex, changes the layout from flow to flexbox

flex-direction: row - makes the primary axis go from left to right, while the cross axis goes from top to bottom

flex-direction: column - makes the primary axis go from top to bottom, while the cross axis goes from left to right

justify-content:

    flex-start: aligns items to the start of the primary axis

    center: aligns items to the center of the primary axis

    flex-end: aligns items to the end of the primary axis

    space-between: puts as much space as possible between all items in the primary axis

    space-around: puts the same space value around each item in the primary axis

    space-evenly: evenly spaces each item from each other in the primary axis

align-items:

    does a similar job to justify-content, but instead aligning to the cross axis of the flexbox


both justify-content and align-items have:

    flex-start, center and flex-end


only justify-content has:

    space-between
    space-around
    space-evenly

while only align-items has:

    stretch
    baseline


align-self:

    has the same properties of align-items, but will instead only align the selected item in the css rule
    it is applied to the child element, not the container


the main difference between primary and cross axis is:

    the primary axis aligns the whole group
    while the cross axis has more freedom to align individual items


width and height are always horizontal and vertical regardless of flex-direction being row or column 

flex-basis is width or height, but pegged to the primary axis

Not exactly the same

    In general, we can use width and flex-basis interchangeably in a Flex row, but there are some exceptions. For example, the width property affects replaced elements like images differently than flex-basis. Also, width can reduce an item below its minimum size, while flex-basis can't.

    It's well outside the scope of this blog post, but I wanted to mention it, because you may occasionally run into edge-cases where the two properties have different effects.

    flex-basis will make things shrink or grow proportionally
    flex-shrink allows items to be shrunk proportionally to fit into a container, choosing the ratio at which it is done

    if we don't want any shrinking at all we can use flex-shrink: 0;

    we can use min-width to make items not overflow

    when you wrap, each item becomes its own flex container