ECMAScript

	JavaScript is just a programming language that conforms to the ECMAScript standard, made by Ecma International, and ES6 is a version of JavaScript that was officially released in the summer of 2015. It included many new features that makes writing JavaScript much easier and cleaner. In this curriculum, you have already been learning many of these new features because, well, ES6 is just JavaScript.

	Release schedule

		You have probably also come across articles talking about features in ES7 or ES8 or ES2015 or ES2017 etc. Part of the confusion here is that right after the release of ES6, the committee that makes these decisions (known as TC39) changed the naming scheme from version numbers (ES5, ES6, ES7 etc.) to release years. ES6 is also known as ES2015, and what some articles refer to as ES7 is also known as ES2016 etc. Instead of a single new version containing a huge number of new features (as was the case with ES6 and before), versions are now released annually with a smaller set of additions per version.

Browser support

	The problem with JavaScript constantly updating and adding features is that it sometimes takes web browsers a while to catch up and implement new features once they’ve been released. It often takes a couple of years for a new feature to become “widely available” (supported across the majority of modern browsers and browser versions in use). This means, unfortunately, that if you write code using brand new features, it will not run in browsers that do not support it.

	For most of us, this has not been an issue because you are almost definitely using a new browser that automatically updates itself when a new version is released. But in the real world, if you’re selling products to customers, you can’t control which browsers people will use to connect to your site.

	Babel

		Fortunately there is a solution to this problem. Babel (http://babeljs.io/) is a tool that takes your modern JavaScript code and transpiles it to code that older browsers can understand. It can be set to transpile to meet any number of targets (e.g. minimum browser versions across various browsers), where the necessary targets depend on things like the product’s purpose, its target audience etc. Some products may be fine with more recent browser support only whereas others may need to be much stricter and ensure support for much older browsers.

		In all honesty, this is not something that you are going to need to worry about on every project you’re starting, since the point of curriculum projects is to get practical experience with things and not delivering production-level products to customers. Still, it helps to be aware of the situation and what things may be necessary in the real world.

Resources

	https://github.com/lukehoban/es6features
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECMAScript_version_history#14th_Edition_%E2%80%93_ECMAScript_2023	